# Parallel-Processing-Concepts---CSCI-6330-001
Semester Project-Fall 2022

Team: Jesse Gailbreath, Jansen Long, Ryan Morse, Elijah White, Dilafruz Shamsieva

The goal of this project is to run Markov Chains in parallel to predict batter/pitching matchups in baseball. To run this code, you must download this github
repository and unzip the files. Then you must copy the files mBumgarner_actual_19X19.csv and jAltuve_actual_19X19.csv into files called mBumgarner_19x19.csv and jAltuve_19x19.csv in the same directory you are running each program from respectively.
Each program should be compiled and ran as indicated. <br/>
- The programs serialmat.c and ompmat.c have a variable called FILE_NAME. Inside of main() it is set to mat.csv by default. In order to run this program on either of these files, you must change the value of FILE_NAME inside main to the desired .csv file name.
- ompmat.c takes 1 command line argument that represents the number of threads you would like to run the program on
- Each implementation will output the runtime and the Steady State matrix generated by the operations.

An example compile and execution statements using the GNU compiler is as follows:
1. gcc serialmat.c -o serial_mat <br/> ./serial_mat <br/>
2. mpicc mpi_matmult1.c -o mpi_mat <br/> mpiexec -n N ./mpi_mat		--Where N is the number of processors you want to run the program on <br/>
3. gcc -fopenmp ompmat.c -o ompmat <br/> ./omp_mat N		--Where N is the number of threads you want to create <br/>

